# Charter, Trust Deed And By-laws Cooper Union Advancement Of Science And Art: With The Letter Of Peter Cooper Accompanying The Trust Deed 1881

## By-laws And Regulations

Be it ordained, by the Board of Trustees of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, and it is hereby ordained by authority of the same: That the following rules and regulations be, and they hereby are, established as laws and ordinances of said Corporation :

### Chapter I: Of The Seal Of The Corporation

1. The device of the seal of this Corporation shall be a circular disc, upon the outer edge of which shall be the words, "THE COOPER UNION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE AND ART, FOUNDED A.D. 1859, BY PETER COOPER, A MECHANIC OF NEW YORK." These words shall surround a medallion head of Peter Cooper, on the rim of which shall be the words, "WHATSOEVER THINGS ARE TRUE."

### Chapter II: Of Filling Vacancies In The Board Of Trustees

1. Upon the happening of any vacancy in the Board of Trustees of this Corporation, which is provided by the charter to be filled by election, the same shall be recorded, with its cause, on the book of minutes of the meetings of the Board, and an election shall be held within one year after such vacancy occurs, by the surviving or remaining members of the Board, at a regular meeting, on previous notice voted and determined by them, given and entered in the minutes of at least one preceding regular meeting of such Board, stating the meeting at which such election shall be held; and at such meeting, or at any regularly adjourned meeting from that meeting, such election shall be held by ballot, and the person first having three of the votes cast shall be the Trustee to fill such vacancy.

2. The Secretary of the Board of Trustees shall act as inspector of votes at such election.

3. The poll for said election shall be opened at the hour determined for the meeting, and closed within one hour thereafter, and every Trustee voting shall deliver to the inspector a ballot containing the name of the person as Trustee to fill said vacancy, and the inspector shall receive and open such ballots, and write down the names of the persons so voting as aforesaid, and their respective candidates, in the order in which they vote, in a roll list which shall form part of the minutes of the meeting. And at the time the said election shall be closed, the inspector shall openly declare the poll and the name of the person who shall be found to have been elected Trustee according to the charter and by-laws, and shall enter the same on the minutes of the meeting, and shall as soon as may be send to the person so elected a written notification of the same.

### Chapter III: Of The Board Of Trustees, Their Meetings, Elections, Committees And Appointments And Removals

1. The office of the Board of Trustees shall be in the Cooper Union Building. All their meetings shall be held there, except when otherwise ordered by a vote of the Trustees.

2. A meeting of the Board shall be held at their office on the first Monday of every month, at half-past seven o'clock p.m., and in case such Monday shall fall on the first of January, or on Fourth of July, or on Christmas day, the meeting shall be postponed to the following Monday.

3. At each meeting of the Board, the minutes of the preceding meeting shall be read at length, unless otherwise directed by the Board.

4. Three Trustees, including the President for the time being, shall be a quorum for transacting all business, except the election of officers or committees, the alienating any of the real or personal estate of the Corporation above one thousand dollars in value, or the leasing any of the real, personal or mixed estate thereof for a longer term than one year, or for the appointing, suspending, or discharging any officer appointed by the Board, or for any business relating to the "Associates of the Cooper Union,"—for all of which purposes the vote of a majority of all the Board shall be necessary.

5. On the regular meeting of the Board in May of each year, there shall be chosen by the Trustees, out of their own number, by ballot, one President, one Treasurer, one Secretary, to hold their respective offices, unless sooner removed for cause, for one year, and until others are chosen in their stead. The first election of the said officers so held as above provided, shall be held at any regular meeting of the Board.

6. But any vacancies thereafter occurring in either of the said offices, shall as soon as possible be ascertained and recorded on the minutes of any regular meeting of the Board, and shall be filled in like manner as provided in the preceding section at the regular meeting of the Board next thereafter, if possible, or as soon as may be. The above offices may be filled _pro tem_., for and at any meeting of the Board.

7. At the regular meeting in June in each year, the Board of Trustees shall appoint by vote, for a year, under the by-laws and regulations, and until their successors, respectively, are chosen, a committee, denominated the Instruction and Lecture Committee, to consist of two of the Trustees, together with the Secretary of the Board.

8. At the meeting named in section 8, there shall be appointed by the Board, for a year, and in like manner, a committee, to be denominated the Reading-Room and Cabinet Committee, to consist of two of the Trustees.

9. A committee shall also be appointed by the President, to be denominated the Inspecting Committee, to consist of a Trustee, to serve two months from his appointment, and of the President, ex-officio. All the preceding appointments of committees and officers, and others named in sections 7, 8, and 9, may be made for the first time at any regular meeting of the Board.

10. The Board of Trustees shall, on nomination of the respective committees, and at the next meeting after the entry of such nomination on the minutes of the Board, proceed to such election and appointments other than those in their bylaws specially named, as may- be necessary, according to the respective rules and regulations of those committees, and shall fix the salaries, and the times of payment of the same, and the Secretary shall make the necessary drafts for said salaries upon the Treasurer.

11. All officers and employees of the Corporation shall hold office only during the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, and may be removed either by vote, or if any officers appointed or elected by the Board shall become unfit to execute his office, or shall misdemean himself in his office contrary to any of the by-laws or regulations of the Board, or of their Committee, to which he is amenable, or refuse or neglect to execute the same, the Committee of the Board under whose supervision he is, or any other officers of the Corporation, or the Council of the Associates of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, may exhibit against him a complaint in writing to the Board at any legal meeting; and thereupon a notice of the said complaint shall be given in writing to the person complained of, and the Board having examined into the truth of the complaint, and heard the defence of the party accused, if any shall be made, may suspend or discharge the officer complained of as aforesaid : excepting always from the operation of this section the removals otherwise provided for in the charter.

12. The Trustees shall annually in each year, at the first meeting in the month of July, appropriate to each of the committees, such sum of money as the Board shall deem proper, which appropriation the said committee may expend for the purposes of their commission, but the said committees shall in no case expend more than the amount so appropriated without first asking and receiving, a further appropriation, and the Trustees may at any meeting increase or reduce the amount so appropriated. All money shall be drawn by the draft of the chairman of the committee incurring the expenditures, upon the Treasurer, and a draft book shall be kept in the office for that purpose. Every such committee may, if they think it necessary, apply in writing, stating the time and object, to the President, or in his absence to the Secretary, to call a special meeting of the Trustees. Every such committee shall make all their reports to the Board in writing.

13. At the first meeting after the Annual Meeting, on the third Tuesday of May, or at any meeting next after such matters may have been brought before the Board, the Board shall act upon the subject of the “ Associates of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art,” their rules and regulations, and upon any other matters which may be brought before them in writing, touching or connected with the said Associates, or their counsel.

14. The Board may at any time appoint such special committees, with such duties and regulations, and may make and change any ordinances and regulations, not contrary to these by-laws, as to them shall seem proper.

15. All drafts for money made as above shall be paid by the Treasurer, and also such sums as shall be appropriated directly by the Trustees, but the Treasurer shall not deliver any money except upon such draft, or such vote of the Trustees.

16. Whenever, at a meeting of the Board, the minutes of the next preceding meeting are read, any Trustee absent at said preceding meeting may, if he see tit, have, on his request, his dissent from any of the votes of such preceding meeting entered upon the records. Full minutes shall be kept by the said Board of all their proceedings, and the ayes and noes shall be recorded on any vote on the request of any member.

17. Neglect of a Trustee of his duties as such, indicated by his absence, without excuse or permission of the Board, from five successive regular meetings of the Board, shall always be a sufficient cause, among others, for the removal of a Trustee by the Board.

18. In case it shall be inconvenient for a Trustee to attend any meeting of a committee of which he shall be a member, it shall be his duty, if possible, to procure some other Trustee to attend such meeting as his substitute.

19. The Board may publish, in such manner as they see fit, the annual reports of their Secretary on the progress and wants of abstract and applied science, arts, trades, and commerce, and such other reports and matters in connection with the Cooper Union and its objects as they may deem judicious.

### Chapter IV: Of The Anniversary Of Degrees And Diplomas

1. At the end of May in each year, the Board of Trustees shall hold, at their building in New York, a public meeting and anniversary of the Corporation, for the purpose of conferring under the charter, certificates, degrees and diplomas, for proficiency in science, arts, philosophy or letters, upon such of their pupils and others as they may deem to deserve them, and under such regulations as the Board may at any regular meeting adopt.

### Chapter V: Of The President

1. The President may call a meeting of the Board of Trustees whenever he shall think necessary, and may appoint the time and place of such meeting, and shall call one according to any request in writing by any two of the Trustees, or by any standing committee of the Board, or by a vote duly certified to him of the Council of the Associates of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, giving iu every instance at least one day’s notice thereof.

2. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Trustees and of the Corporation, and shall preserve order therein ; he shall nominate all committees, except such as shall be chosen by ballot.

3. The President shall be ex-officio one of the Visiting Committee.

4. The President shall sign for the Trustees, on the direction of their Board, all their bonds, deeds, written leases and other written contracts, the amount involved in which shall be over one hundred dollars in value, or which shall have one year or more from their date to run, and which shall be signed by the Treasurer and sealed by the Secretary.

5. The President shall have a general supervisory power over the Institution, and shall at each regular meeting of the Trustees report either verbally or in writing on its general condition.

### Chapter VI: Of The Treasurer

1. The Treasurer shall have the custody of all bonds, title deeds, and other papers and documents relating to the property and accounts of the Corporation.

2. He shall open with one of the banks in the City of New York, selected and appointed by the Board, an account in the name of the Corporation, and he shall deposit all its moneys, immediately upon his receiving them, in such bank to that account.

3. He shall keep a book containing blank checks, and in drawing for money he shall use the said checks, and insert in the margin opposite to them respectively their amounts and dates, and the names of the persons to whom they are payable, and on what account.

4. He shall cause a book to be kept for the sole purpose of keeping an account with the bank ; and he shall cause to be entered in such book, all deposits made and checks drawn, with their amounts, dates, and the names of the persons to whom they are payable,

5. The Treasurer shall pay no moneys without a draft signed by the Chairman of the Standing Committee, or by the Secretary of the Board, when the money is ordered to be expended by a direct vote of the Board.

6. The Treasurer shall have his office in the Cooper Union Building at the same room as the Curator, and shall cause to be kept there a journal and a ledger, in which shall be contained an account of receipts, an account of expenditures, an account with the bank, an account with the Curator of the Corporation; separate accounts with each Committee of the Board of Trustees authorized to draw money with the Associates of the Cooper Union; and with any individual, association or institution that may become connected with the Cooper Union, and all such other accounts as may be necessary.

7. The Treasurer shall sign on the direction of the Board all their bonds, deeds, written leases and other written contracts.

8. He shall make to the Board of Trustees, at the second regular meeting in each month, a report of the state of finances of the Corporation, and shall at any time, upon request, furnish any reasonable explanations and statements upon any financial matters of the Cooper Union to the Board of Trustees, or any of its Committees, and shall prepare all financial parts of reports required by the Charter, By-Laws or Board upon the matters of the Corporation.

### Chapter VII: Of The Secretary

1. The Secretary shall have the custody of the seal of the Corporation, and shall use it only at the direction of the Board of Trustees.

2. He shall be ex-officio a member of the Instruction and Lecture Committee.

3. He shall have his office in the Union Building, and shall attend all the meetings of the Board of Trustees; take minutes of the proceedings of each meeting, and see that the Clerk of the Board transcribes them, and all notices, and all written suggestions of the Council of the Associates of the Union, and all other matters to be so transcribed, entered or recorded, into a book of minutes and proceedings of the Board provided for that purpose.

4. He shall take notice of, and cause to be entered at once on the minutes of the Board, any vacancies in the number of Trustees, or their committees or appointees, to be filled.

5. He shall, under direction of the Board, prepare all reports, except the details of the financial reports, of the conduct and state of the Cooper Union, and shall see that the reports required by the Charter are duly furnished.

6. At every stated meeting of the Board he shall read the minutes of the preceding meeting at length, unless otherwise directed by the Board.

7. He shall sign all notices of elections or appointments by the Board, and all notices directed by the Board to be given of their meetings, or of other matters, and see that they, are duly given out ; and shall see that notices are sent to any honorary or corresponding associates or members; that acknowledgments are made of all donations to the corporation, and that certificates of pupils, or members, or donors, or any others, and all evidences of degrees and diplomas directed by the By-Laws, or the Board, or by their Committees, are duly and properly furnished, and shall sign the same by order.

8. He shall have the general oversight of the various departments of the Union, and manage the scholastic operations and the correspondence of the Cooper Union—be the organ of communication with the community, and with other associations and institutions at home and abroad for the advancement of practical and abstract science, and by his correspondence, studies and observations, keep informed of the progress and the wants of abstract and applied science, arts, trade and commerce everywhere, especially at home, and embody the results of his labors in annual reports to the Board of Trustees at their regular meeting which will be first in the month of May, in each year, to be published by them; and shall make quarterly reports to the Board at the regular meeting which will be second in the months of April, June, September and December of each year, of his department, of the conduct, state, and progress of the various departments of instruction and improvement, and of the respective appliances under the whole or partial control of the corporation, with suggestions of any action on the same which he may deem proper to make.

9. He shall assist the Trustees or their Committees in the selection and engaging of lecturers and instructors, and appliances of instruction and improvement; in making the courses of instruction, and in making the respective rules and regulations for the different departments, and in the conferring of certificates of proficiency, degrees and diplomas, and in any other matters pertaining to the purposes of the Cooper Union, whenever called upon by them.

10. He shall answer, or cause to be answered, unless when it is otherwise directed by the Board of Trustees, or their Committees, all letters addressed to the Union, shall open and

[SCAN MISSING PAGES 48 - 49]

6. His office shall be in the Union building, and he shall render the visitors to his departments every facility in his power.

7. He shall be the Clerk of the Board of Trustees, and shall on the day following every meeting of the Trustees, enter in their journal a fair copy of the minutes taken by the Secretary, together with such reports and other papers as the Secretary shall direct. He shall enter and index in a book for recording ordinances, all by-laws that may, from time to time, be passed by the Trustees, and such entry shall be made by him immediately after the passing of said by-law. He shall also enter and index therein all orders enjoining special duties to be performed by any of the Committees, or by any officers or servants of the Corporation, which orders must be recorded in a part of said book, separate from the by-laws. He shall furnish the Chairman of every Committee appointed by the Trustees with a copy of the minutes relating to their appointment, and he shall so notify every person appointed on any of said Committees of his appointment.

8. He shall be Clerk of all the Committees of the Board of Trustees, except the Inspecting Committee.

9. He shall attend these Committees in their official visitations, and take and keep exact notes of their official doings, and prepare for them their reports to the Board.

10. He shall make and keep a book for that purpose for the Committee of Instruction and Lectures, a catalogue of the instructors and lecturers, and of the pupils who may be at any time connected with the Cooper Union, and of their residences.

11. He shall digest and arrange the various reports of study, attendance, conduct, and marks of pupils, and of audiences, and of readers, for the proper committees to use in their reports to the Board.

### Chapter IX: Of The Department Of Instruction

1. The Trustees shall establish and maintain a school for the instruction of respectable females in the arts of design, and in such other branches of knowledge as in their judgment will tend to the elevation and employment of female labor. The instruction afforded in this school shall be given without charge, but the regulations may provide for the admission of amateur pupils for pay, so long as industrial pupils are not thereby excluded. All money received from such amateur pupils shall be applied to the support of the school. The industrial pupils will be required to aid in the instruction of the school, so far as the Director thereof may require.

2. The Trustees shall open and maintain a Free Reading-room, in the large hall in the third story, for the use of the working classes of both sexes, and their families.

3. The Trustees shall provide free courses of instruction, at night, in the elementary principles of science, and their application to the practical business of life. These courses may be enlarged from time to time, but shall always include instruction upon chemistry, physics, mechanics, mathematics and mechanical drawing. This instruction shall be adapted to the comprehension and improvement of the mechanics and mechanics’ apprentices of New York and its vicinity, being intended to bridge over the gap which now exists between science ami the practical occupations of life.

4. The Trustees shall arrange for an annual course of public lectures upon the principles of government and upon social and political economy, according to the provision coutained in the Trust Deed; and this course of lectures shall be so managed and ai'ranged as to be a leading feature of the Institution.

5. The Trustees shall, as soon as the income of the Corporation will warrant, establish and maintain a thorough polytechnic school, upon sucn terms and conditions as shall be prescribed by the Trustees, at the time of its organization.

6. The Trustees shall, as soon as the preceding departments have been organized, or earlier, if they shall deem it expedient, organize the Society of the Associates of the Cooper Union for the advancement of Science and Art, as prescribed by the Charter and Deed of Trust.

7. The Trustees shall annually provide for the lectures and debates of the students, according to the request contained in the letter of Peter Cooper, accompanying the Trust Deed ; and also for the adoption of such rules and regulations by the students as shall meet with the approval of the Trustees.

### Chapter X: Of The Committee Of Instruction And Lectures

1. This Committee shall have the general charge of the instruction aud lectures of the Cooper Union, and of those of any and all other bodies or individuals over which the Board of Trustees shall have whole or partial control, aud regulate the admission to aud use of the same.

2. They shall make a set of rules and regulations, and revise the same once, at least, in the year, and from time to time change, add to, amend, or repeal any or all of them in reference to the various departments of instruction specified in sections 1,	3, 4, 5 and 7 of ### CHAPTER IX ; and “ for conferring, by the Trustees of the Cooper Union, degrees aud diplomas for proficiency in science, arts, philosophy or letters.”

3. The regulations may contemplate that all the parts of instructions proposed may not be at once put into operation, but may be added from time to time, until there are established regular classes of instruction, to the extent of the whole course of instruction prescribed by the Trustees.

4. The Committee shall prescribe the requisites for admission, and continuance in the Institution, the records of attendance, conduct and progress, as well as the conditions and forms of certificates, degrees and diplomas, regular or honorary, in all the courses of instruction and lectures, to be conferred by the Trustees.

5. The instruction furnished by the institution shall be given without charge, except in the Polytechnic course, which, when established, shall be upon such conditions as the income of the Corporation will warrant. But the Committee may provide, if they see fit, for the admission of amateurs, or others able to pay, upon payment of stated fees.

6. This Committee shall make arrangements for, and supervise all the courses of lectures, or other courses of instruction of the Cooper Union—shall oversee the school of design, and all other schools and various departments of instruction established, or which shall be controlled in whole or in part by the Cooper Union 5 and shall fix, in their regulations, the number and the respective departments of the instructors and lecturers in the Cooper Union. But all instructors or other officers shall have their office only during the pleasure of the Trustees.

7. They may, subject to the approval of the Trustees, make any arrangements with other institutions, associations, or individuals, to carry on any part or parts of the instruction or lectures' in this chapter set forth. And until the Board of Trustees shall be of opinion that the funds of the Board will be sufficient for the establishment of such a Polytechnic school as before named, this Committee, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, according to the charter, “ may furnish with rooms and accommodation for such school, and may assist in the maintenance thereof, the department of public instruction of the city of New York, the trustees of any college or university, or any other body, individual . or individuals,” on such conditions and to such extent as they shall see fit, aud the Board of Trustees may authorize.

8. This Committee shall nominate to the Board of Trustees, for appointment, the lecturers and instructors of every kind in the Union, except as may be otherwise ordered by the Board in any case. They shall discipline and suspend or remove from privileges, at their discretion, any pupils of the Cooper Union, for contravention of the rules aud regulations in their departments.

9. They shall appoint and remove any assistants that may be required in any of the departments under their control, and fix their compensation.

10. They, shall supply such fixtures, furniture and appliances for instruction and improvement in their various departments as they shall deem necessary, aud notify any other committees of the Board of any matters or things under their control which they may wish them to supply.

11. They shall draw their drafts upon the Treasurer for all or any purchases or expenses they may make for their official purposes, which drafts shall be signed by the chairman of the committee. They shall keep minutes of their official doings, and make report of all of them and of their expenses aud drafts, and on the conduct and state of all the instruction in the Union, under their supervision, (together with a report, at least once a mouth, of a digest of the records of the progress and conduct of the pupils,) with suggestions connected therewith, to the regular meetings of the Board, which will be held second in the mouths of February, May, September and December, in each year.

12. This Committee shall visit the Union and the lecture and instruction rooms when in use, and the subjects of their commission, at least once in each week, and oftener if they can make it convenient so to do.

### Chapter XI: Of The Committee Of The Reading-room And Cabinets

1. This Committee shall have the general charge of the reading-room, cabinets of scientific collections, and galleries of art, laboratory, and work-shop, and of any and all similar matters, wholly or partially controlled by the board of Trustees, and of the admission to and use of the same.

2. This Committee shall make a set of rules and regulations, and revise the same once at least in the year, and from time to time change, add to, amend, or repeal any or all of them, in adaptation to the objects of the foundation of the Union, the charter, and the deed of trust of the same, and the by-laws, for organizing, and from time to time changing or adding to, furnishing, “supporting and maintaining in the building of the Cooper Union, and by the Board of Trustees of the same, and admitting to the use of pupils of the Cooper Union, in classes or not, and of other visitors,” a free reading-room, and galleries of art, and of scientific collections, designed to improve and instruct those classes of the inhabitants of the city of New York whose occupations are such as to be calculated to deprive them of proper recreation and amusement.

3. The Committee shall, in making and arranging its cabinets and scientific collections, so far as possible, adapt them to the courses of instruction pursued in the institution.

4. This Committee shall provide, by purchase or exchange, gift, loan, or deposit, and have arranged as fast as may be, and from time to time add to and complete, collections of apparatus, drawings, representations, and models, for illustration and explanation, and specimens of the raw materials of arts, trades and commerce, collections of specimens of such materials as are last named, in their successive processes and stages of manufacture in the arts and trades, and in the operations of commerce ; with drawings, representations, models, and specimens of the tools, utensils, constructions, and machines used in each of them respectively—and collections of specimens, drawings, or representations of the manufactured articles, products and results of each of the arts and trades of commerce. They shall in like maimer provide aud arrange in the Cooper Union building, galleries of art; and shall further, in manner as above, provide and arrange the necessary descriptive and explanatory maps, books, dictionaries, aud encyclopedias of the above collections aud galleries for direct reference and use; aud they shall also provide and furnish in one or more rooms of the Cooper Union building, the laboratory necessary for illustration and experiment in teaching and lectures.

5. This Committee may make any arrangements with other institutions, associations, or individuals for gifts, loans or deposits of collections, specimens, or articles for their above-named purposes : provided always that they do not break up or interfere with the classification and arrangement of such matters in these By-laws indicated.

6. This Committee shall provide for, by purchase or otherwise, establish, furnish aud maintain a comprehensive free reading-room for the working classes, in the Cooper Union building, for both sexes, with the books, plans, maps, pamphlets, publications aud papers of the day, and all other conveniences which they may deem fit and proper to fulfil the aim and objects of the founding of the Cooper Union ; and this may be done iu connection with the scientific collections and galleries of art of the said Cooper Union.

7. They shall open all these appliances to the use of all the departments of instruction and improvement in the Cooper Union, and to the pupils aud instructors and lecturers of the same, and to the classes for which the founder intended it should be opened; to the associates of the Cooper Union, and to such other individuals and associations as may have become connected with the Cooper Uniou, or which may be granted the privilege by the Board of Trustees. And they shall suspend or remove from privileges, at their discretion, for contravention of the rules and regulations in their department. They shall prescribe the condition of use and of its forfeiture of the matters of their commission. All regular use of the same shall be free, and the working classes, male and female, of the city shall be annually and frequently invited by public advertisement to resort to and make use of the same.

8. They shall appoint and remove any assistants that may be required in any of the departments under their control, and fix their compensation.

9. They shall draw their drafts upon the Treasurer for all and any purchases or expenses they may make for their official purposes, which drafts shall be signed by the chairman of the committee. They shall make report of all their official doings and of their purchases, expenses aud drafts, and upon the general condition of the subjects of their commission, (together with a report once a mouth of the average attendance during the month,) and any suggestions on the same, to the regular meetings of the Board of Trustees, which shall be held in the mouths of February, May, September and December of eacli year.
10. This Committee shall visit the subjects of their commission at least once in each week.

### Chapter XII: Of The Inspecting Committee

1. This Committee shall have charge and supervision of all the material arrangements, permanent furniture and fixtures of the Cooper Union, except as otherwise in the by-laws provided, aud its buildings, aud of their additions, alterations aud repairs, and insurance; of the heating and ventilation, aud supply of the same; of the water and gas pipes, and machinery, and the supply; of the steam machinery and apparatus; of the whole department of the curator, of the engineer and porter, and of the cleanliness, ecouomy and good conduct of the building of the Cooper Uuion and its parts.

2. This Committee shall nominate to the Board for appointment a suitable person for curator; and shall appoint and fix the compensation for an engineer aud a janitor, subject to the Board. In case of necessity, they may suspend the engineer aud the janitor, and temporarily supply the vacancy, till the Board can act upon the matter; and shall appoint and dismiss any subordinate assistants, and fix their compensation.

3. It shall be the duty of this Committee to provide rooms in the Cooper Union building, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees, suitable for the offices of the Society of “ The Associates of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science aud Art,” and to furnish to such society for its general meetings, on one evening of each week, the great hall of the building, if the council of said society shall require it so often.

4. This Committee shall have, at all reasonable times, access to the books and accounts of the Treasurer of the Corporation, for the purposes of examination or making extracts; and shall have a right to call upon the Treasurer for financial statements, accounts and explanations. They shall, in the month of December of each year, audit the accounts of the Corporation, and make a general inventory of all the real, personal and mixed estate belonging to or controlled by it, a schedule of all the deeds, bonds aud formal evidences of dues or property of the Corporation in the custody of the Treasurer, and a general statement of the accounts, which inventory, schedule and statement shall be made up and produced by them to the Board of Trustees, at the last regular meeting appointed in December, or at the one following.

5. This Committee shall draw their drafts upon the Treasurer for all or any purchases or expenses they make for their official purposes, which drafts shall be signed by either member of the Committee.

6. This Committee shall visit the Union Building at least once a week, and shall report their doings, and drafts, and their suggestions, to the Board of Trustees, at the regular meetings of the Board, which shall be held second in each month.

### Chapter XIII: Of The Curator

1. The Curator shall be the Clerk of the Treasurer. His office shall be in the Cooper Union Building, the entrance of the same, for the purpose of oversight.
He shall keep the books of the Treasurer.

2. He shall also be Clerk of the Inspecting Committee of' the Board of Trustees, attend them in their visitation of the buildings, keep their minutes, aud shall assist them in their duties whenever they may require him.

3. He shall, under the Board and their Inspecting Committee, have the general charge of the building, and of all matters that come under the charge of the said Committee, and shall see that the rules and regulations, and directions which they make, are carried into effect. He shall, under the said Committee, hire and dismiss the subordinate servants employed about the building. He shall keep at his office the keys of the building and its parts, when not leased, or occupied by the Corporation. He shall keep a list of all the leases and other sources of income of the Corporation, aud, under the Treasurer and Inspecting Committee of the Board of Trustees, let the property so to be disposed of, and collect the rents and other income, and shall make all purchases and contracts for additions, alterations and repairs, and advertisements of the same, aud for the insurances, supplies, minor services and current expenses of the building,-as directed by the respective committees of the Board; and, under the Treasurer, make all disbursements for the Corporation on orders or drafts signed by the said committees ; and shall report his doings weekly to the Inspecting Committee.

4. He shall keep, in a book provided for that purpose, a regular account of all the moneys received or disbursed by him on behalf of the Corporation, with separate accounts with each of the committees of the Board of Trustees authorized to draw money, and with each other distinct department, association, or institution, aud individual connected with this Corporation, and such other accounts as may be necessary, for all receipts and payments by himself; and in the same book a record of all such contracts as he may have been authorized to make ; which book, with the vouchers, shall be laid before the Inspecting Committee once in every month, for their examination.

5. All accounts coming into his hands, he shall daily deposit with the Treasurer, to be by him placed to the credit of the Corporation.

6. Whatever money may be required for the use of the Corporation, he shall obtain by a draft from the respective committees of the Board of Trustees upon the Treasurer for such sums as may from time to time be required for that purpose. He shall account, in his statement of receipts and expenditures, for all moneys so received, which statement, with his vouchers, shall be laid before the Inspecting Committee at the same time as his book of accounts provided for in section four of this chapter.

7. He shall keep at his office a register book for the names and. residence of visitors to the Cooper Union, and request that it may be used by them.

8. lie shall place a letter-box and notice board near his office for the general use of the Institution and the individuals connected therewith.

9. It shall be the duty of the Curator to afford all the information in his power to applicants for the services of" young men and women connected with the institution, and to advise with the pupils in a kind and affectionate manner as to their conduct and settlement in life.

### Chapter XIV: Of The Engineer And Janitor

1. The Engineer, under the supervision and direction of the Curator, shall have charge of the boilers and steam machinery and heat, water aud light fixtures and apparatus in the Union Building. It shall be his duty to provide an adequate supply of hot and cold water and of light; to keep all the tanks, conduits, gutters, spouts, smoke and ventilation flues, furnances, gas-pipes, waste ducts, steam-pipes, boilers, force-pumps, washing and water-closets, and all machinery and other mechanical wrork about the building, so far as he can, in good order and repair; and he shall do whatever mechanical work about the said building the Curator may at any time call upon him for. He shall be responsible for the economical use of coal and steam, aud for the neat and orderly condition of the boiler-room and air-chambers, and hoisting-well, and cellar stove-rooms, aud everything connected therewith. It shall be his special duty to see that, as near as may be, the required degrees of temperature be maintained in the main building during winter.

2. The Engineer and his assistants shall be subject at all times to the direction and control of the Inspecting Committee and to that of the Curator, and he shall report to them at once all misconduct or negligence of persons, and any important matters in this department.

3. The Janitor shall attend at the Union Building and shall perform any services required of him by the Inspecting Committee, or the Curator, or the other committees or officers of the Corporation. He shall see that all the rooms used by the Cooper Union and those connected with it are in all respects ready for use when wanted, and properly cared for after being used.

### Chapter XV: Of The Terms And Condition's Of Membership Of The Society Which The Trustees Of The Corporation May Organize, With He Style And Title Of “ The Associates Of The Cooper Union For The Advancement Of Science And Art.”

[Note. — This chapter will be determined by the Trustees hereafter.]

### Chapter XVI: Of Advisory Councils

1. The Trustees shall, as soon as possible, select an Advisory Council of ladies, or of ladies and gentlemen, to visit and manage the School of Design for Women.

2. It shall be the duty of the Advisory Council to supervise the management of the School of Design for Women ; to recommend measures of improvement to the Trustees ; to visit the school daily, detailing some member for that purpose ; to keep a book of minutes in which to record suggestions and in which the daily visitor shall record her observations ; which book of minutes shall be laid before the Trustees and read at each regular meeting.

3. The Trustees may also from time to time organize Advisory Councils for the other departments of the Union, for the purpose of ensuring attention and efficiency in the management of the institution.

### Chapter XVI: Of Alterations In The By-laws.

The Board of Trustees may, by an affirmative vote of not less than three Trustees, alter, amend, add to, or repeal these By-Laws, or any of them, at any regular meeting, provided notice of the proposed alteration be given and entered on their minutes at least one previous regular meeting before, but no such notice shall be required for the suspension of a By-Law.